numaprof-webview(1) -- Webserver for the NUMAPROF web GUI
===========================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`numaprof-webview` [OPTIONS] {numaprof-profile.json}

## DESCRIPTION

The NUMAPROF web GUI is hosted by a python script managed by `numaprof-webview` command. It will
by default open a socket listening on `localhost` and port `8080` so reachable with address
http://localhost:8080.

## OPTIONS

 * `-O`, `--override`:
   If you copy a profile file from a remote machine to your local one, your code might
   be stored into another place (not same user, not same path). Thanks to override options
   you can alias some paths to make it transparent to the GUI and be able to find your
   source code. The format is *src_path1:dest_path1,src_path2,dest_path2*. The easiest use
   is to override the root directory of your project.
 * `p`, `--port`:
   Force to use another port than default 8080.
 * `-S`, `--search-path`:
   Search file with non-full path in this list of directories : */home/orig/a,/tmp/b*.
 * `-h`, `--help`:
   Display a short help message to summarize the available options.
 * `-w`, '--wekbit`:
   Automatically open a QT4 webkit view to browser in the profile.
 * `-A`, `--authfile`:
   Provide a custom auth file (to be used by QT wrapper).

## REMOTE USAGE THROUGH SSH

On clusters you might be interested by launching the `numaprof-webview` remotly and forward
it through ssh to get it on your local machine. You can achieve this port redirection with
ssh options :

 ssh {YOUR_HOST} -L 8080:localhost:8080

Where the first 8080 is the local port and the second one the remote.

## VERSION

   This is the manpage of NUMAPROF version 1.1.5.

## SEE ALSO

numaprof-qt5(1), numaprof-passwd(1), numaprof(1)
